New rule: Error message is descriptive (b1e6dc) (#727)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/required-form-fields-not-completed-334972.md

---
id: 334972
name: Error message identifies required fields left unfilled
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that text error messages identify required form fields that were not completed.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:3.3.1: # Error Identification (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G83: # Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that were not completed
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree # (e.g. HTTP Messages, DOM Tree, CSS Styling, Accessibility Tree, Language, etc.,)
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
    - João Vicente
---

## Applicability

The rule applies to each [required][] HTML element that:

> - is a [descendant][] of a [form element][]; and

Author: It doesn't anymore. Previously the expectation was checking on form submission.

  wcag20:3.3.1: # Error Identification (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G83: # Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that were not completed
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree # (e.g. HTTP Messages, DOM Tree, CSS Styling, Accessibility Tree, Language, etc.,)
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
    - João Vicente
---

## Applicability

The rule applies to each [required][] HTML element that has one of the following [semantic roles][semantic role]: `checkbox`, `combobox`, `listbox`, `menuitemcheckbox`, `menuitemradio`, `radio`, `searchbox`, `slider`, `spinbutton`, `switch` and `textbox`.

**Note**: The list of applicable [semantic roles][semantic role] is derived by taking all the [ARIA 1.1][] roles that:

- inherit from the [abstract][] `input` or `select` role, and
- do not have a [required context][] role that itself inherits from one of those roles.

## Expectation 1

> For each test target where the user input caused the appearance of an [error message][], the error message is [visible][] and [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each test target where the lack of user input caused the appearance of an [error message][], the error message is [visible][] and [included in the accessibility tree][].
```

> For each test target where the lack of user input caused the appearance of an [error message][], the error message is [visible][] and [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer 2: "lack of user input" is ambiguous. For example, someone may interpret this to mean that the user let a session expire because they went away from their machine for too long.  Failing that is not the intent of this success criterion, but the way this is written it could be misunderstood to mean this.

I also don't think the lack of input causes anything. Submitting a form causes the error. I think this could be phrased a little clearer.

Author: I think you're backtracking a little here. We discussed this previously and because of the difficulty in objectively identifying all situations that could cause an error message the expectation focused on an error message appearing, not on what caused its appearance (e.g. submitting a form). That makes sense because the SC is concerned with the contents of the error message, not on the mechanisms (client- or served-based) that create the error message. Even if the user lets the session expire and because of that an error message is displayed, the error message should still identify the fields in an error state.

Author: Still, I agree that we should leave causation out of the expectation and I'll replace "caused" with "resulted in". (I'll do the same for the other rule in this PR)

## Expectation 2

> Each [error message][] from Expectation 1 allows the identification of the test target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each [error message][] from Expectation 1 identifies the test target as the cause of the error.
```

---
id: 334972
name: Error message identifies required fields left unfilled
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that text error messages identify required form fields that were not completed.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:3.3.1: # Error Identification (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G83: # Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that were not completed
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree # (e.g. HTTP Messages, DOM Tree, CSS Styling, Accessibility Tree, Language, etc.,)
  - CSS Styling
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Carlos Duarte
    - João Vicente
---

## Applicability

> The rule applies to each [required][] HTML element that:

Reviewer 2: Browsers automatically validate form fields that have the `required` attribute. It seems to me that the only way to fail this rule is to run it in a browser that doesn't support the `required` attribute, or to put the `required` attribute on an element that doesn't support it (like `<div required role="textbox"></div>`). I don't really see how this is a useful rule, unless maybe you make this about aria-required=true?

Author: But I'm not just using the `required` attribute in the definition of required. The goal was to have the rule also consider those instances where required fields are not marked with the `required` attribute.

- is a [descendant][] of a [form element][]; and
- has one of the following [semantic roles][semantic role]: `checkbox`, `combobox`, `listbox`, `menuitemcheckbox`, `menuitemradio`, `radio`, `searchbox`, `slider`, `spinbutton`, `switch` and `textbox`.

**Note**: The list of applicable [semantic roles][semantic role] is derived by taking all the [ARIA 1.1][] roles that:

- inherit from the [abstract][] `input` or `select` role, and
- do not have a [required context][] role that itself inherits from one of those roles.

## Expectation 1

> After triggering the submission of the [form element][] that is an [ancestor][] of the target element, each target element that was not [interacted with][] is identified by a text message.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as for the previous rule. I think getting a form field into an error state should not be part of this rule. Just say what the requirements are for when it is in an error state.

The error message identifies any required `input` element that has not been filled. The error message refers to the `input` elements by their labels.

```html
<script>
	function processForm() {
		document.getElementById('error').innerText = ''
		if (document.getElementById('name').value.length === 0) {
			document.getElementById('error').innerText += 'You must fill the name field. '
		}
		var color = document.forms[0].color.value
		if (color.length === 0) {
			document.getElementById('error').innerText += 'You must pick a color.'
		}
	}
</script>

<form>
	<h2 id="error"></h2>
	<label for="name">Name (required)</label>
	<input type="text" id="name" required />
	<br />
	<label for="address">Address</label>
	<input type="text" id="address" />
	<p>Pick a color (required)</p>
	<label><input type="radio" name="color" value="blue" required />Blue</label>
	<label><input type="radio" name="color" value="yellow" />Yellow</label>
	<br />
	<input type="button" value="Submit" onclick="processForm()" />
</form>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

No error message is provided.

```html
<form>
	<label for="text_field">Name (required)</label>
	<input type="text" id="text_field" required />

> 	<input type="button" value="Submit" />

Reviewer 2: This is not a submit button. The expectation calls for actually submitting the form. If you actually were to use a submit button, an error message would be shown. None of these failed cases seem valid to me.

Author: The expectation has been reworded according to your suggestion
